To start learning anything you need to understand the basics of that “thing” and this lesson will teach you one of the most basic yet most important things in programming, Data-Types and Variables.

---

Before you start you will need to download some tools:

Visual Studio Code and python for windows: **[https://youtu.be/dNFgRUD2w68](https://youtu.be/dNFgRUD2w68)**

Visual Studio Code and python for Macs: **[https://youtu.be/e3CYWZ102Bc](https://youtu.be/e3CYWZ102Bc)**

If you do not want to download software onto your computer, check out the Replit setup:

**Replit** setup for Python: [https://youtu.be/un83OvQS00o](https://youtu.be/un83OvQS00o)

---

## Data Types

There are multiple data-types in Python, but in this lesson we’re only going to foucus on the 4 most basic ones which are:

- integers (int; whole numbers only eg: 1, 2 , 3 ,4 , 5 ect)
- floating point numbers (floats; numbers that have decimals, eg: 1.102 , 2.78 , 3.14)
- strings (str; a sequence of charcters these are represented with “” and then anysort of charcters (inculding numbers) inside eg: “abcd” , “1234”, “abcd1234”, “hello world 1234”ect)
- boolean (bool; simply just true or false)

In programing we use these data types to help represent different types of data.

Lets say you want to make a program that wants to add 2 whole numbers you would want to use a int(integer) to do this because you need to represent numbers. You might think you could also use a string, but this would not work because a string does not handle numbers like numbers, they would be handled as a character with no real numerical value. 

If you want to make a app that lets users make their own usernames that can contain symbols

> When you’re programming you want to make sure you’re using the right data type for the job, and if you’re not sure just **Google it or ask help in our [Discord server](https://techoptimum.org/discord)**.
> 

---

## Variables

Variables are ways programmers store a certain value that may or may not be known. 

********************Example #1********************

```python
a = "earth"
```

Here the variable A is being substituted with the word earth. So when we put this into a string;

```python
“hello” + a
```

it will output as 

```python
hello earth
```

Now you may be wondering how this is useful in programming, When making a functional python program, most of the time you will need an input variable. An input variable is a type of variable which asks for input when the program is run.

********************Example #2********************

`val **=**` `input("Enter your value: ")`

`print(val)`

 When this is run it will show 

`Enter your value:` 

and whatever value you enter into the field, it will save as the variable “val”.

### Variables as numbers

Variables do not only have to be strings, but also as numbers! For example, we can set an input as an int like as followed. 

```python
num1 = int(input("Enter a number: "))
num2 = int(input("Enter another number: "))
```

Setting an input as int is required if we want to use the variable in equations. For example, since we used int above, we can now add them in equations. Lets say we set num1 as 1 and num2 as 2. We can add these together to combine them for example.

```python
num3 = num2 + num1
```

This also works for all other operations.

```python
num3 = num2 - num1
num3 = num2 * num1
num3 = num2 / num1
```

---

## Homework

### MadLib:

A “madlib” is a series of nouns, verbs, adjectives etc. inputted by the user to make a crazy random sentence. You can accomplish this by using variable inputs and putting then in a string!

- Example Code (Spoiler)
    
    ```python
    name = input("Enter your name: " )
    
    age = input("Enter your age: " )
    
    hobby = input("Enter your favorite hobby: ")
    
    state = input("Enter a location: ")
    
    day = input("Choose a random day: ")
    
    print(name + " is a " + age + " year old, who likes to " + hobby + " at " + state + " on " + day + ".")
    ```
    

