## Conditionals

Conditionals are vital when it comes to making a interactive app. Conditionals are also known as “if then” statements as seen below.

```python
if expression:
	print(output)
```

The expression can be many things. 

```python
if 1 == 1:
	print("Hello World!")

```

- Example 1
    
    ```python
    var1 = input("Enter a number: )
    var2 = input("Enter another number: )
    if var1 > var2:
    	print("The first number is bigger!")
    ```
    

In addition, of “if statements” there are “else statements”. These can be known as an addition to conditionals in a way. Else statements run only if the original if statement is not true. For example, 

```python
var1 = 1
var2 = 2

if var1=var2:
	print("They are the same!")
else:
	print("They are different")

```

The else statement for example only ran because the original if statement was not a valid expression. The last conditional statement is an elif statement. An elif statement is like in between an if and else statement. It acts as a second if statement if the first one isn’t true. For example

```python
var1=1
var2=2

if var1=var2:
	print("the numbers are the same")
elif var1+var2=3:
	print("The numbers add up to 3")
else:
	print("These numbers have nothing in common")

```

## Functions

Functions are a convenient way to divide your code into useful blocks, allowing us to order our code, make it more readable, reuse it and save some time. Also functions are a key way to define interfaces so programmers can share their code.

Functions in python are defined using the block keyword "def", followed with the function's name as the block's name. For example:

```python
def myfunction():
	print("hello world")
```

You can also pass in arguments/parameters inside the functions’ parentheses. For example:

```python
def myfunction2(username):
	print("Hello " + username)
```

### Calling the functions

To call the function, all you need to do is type in the function name followed by parentheses:

```python
myfunction()
```

If the function requires parameters like myfunction2 above. You just put in the required parameters inside the parentheses.

```python
myfunction2(Yourname)
```