## Databases

A database is a collection of data that is organized in a way that makes it easy to search and use. It can be thought of like a big filing cabinet, where each piece of information is stored in a separate folder and can be found quickly by looking for the right label.

We use databases to store and manage information that is important to us. This could be anything from a list of customers and their orders, to the results of a scientific experiment, to a library's collection of books.

There are different types of databases, but one of the most common is called a relational database. This type of database stores information in tables, with each table containing a different type of data. For example, a customer database might have one table for customer information (like names and addresses), and another table for orders (including what the customer bought and when).

Another type of database is called a NoSQL database. These databases are often used for storing very large amounts of data that doesn't need to be organized in the same way as a relational database. NoSQL databases are often used for things like social media platforms, where it's important to be able to store and access a lot of data quickly.

It's important to learn about databases because they are used in many different fields, from business to science to government. Knowing how to work with databases can help you to analyze and understand data, and can be a valuable skill in many different careers.

## SQL

SQL, or Structured Query Language, is a programming language that is used to communicate with databases. It is a special-purpose language, which means that it is designed specifically for working with data in a database management system (DBMS).

SQL is used to perform a wide range of tasks, such as:

- Adding new data to a database
- Retrieving specific pieces of data from a database
- Updating or deleting existing data
- Creating new tables or structures within a database

SQL is a very powerful language, and it is used in many different fields, such as business, finance, and science. It is a standard language that is used by many different DBMSs, which means that it is a skill that is in high demand.

To use SQL, you need to have a DBMS installed on your computer. There are many different DBMSs available, such as MySQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server. Once you have a DBMS installed, you can use SQL to interact with the data in your database.

If you are interested in learning SQL, there are many resources available online, such as tutorials, courses, and documentation. With a little bit of practice, you can become proficient in SQL and use it to work with data in a powerful and efficient way.

## RDBMS

An RDBMS, or a Relational Database Management System, is a kind of computer program that is used to store and manage data that is organized into tables.

Imagine a library. A library has lots of books, and each book has a title, an author, and a subject. The library might also have information about the number of pages in each book, where it is shelved, and who has borrowed it. All of this information could be organized into tables in a database, with one table for books, one table for authors, and so on.

An RDBMS helps us to store and organize this information in a way that is easy to search and use. We can ask the RDBMS to find all the books about a certain topic or to tell us which books have been checked out by a particular person. It makes it easy for us to keep track of all the information the library has, and to find what we need quickly.

SQL is used to interact with the RDBMS and the data stored in the database. For example, you can use SQL to add new data to a database or to retrieve specific pieces of information from the database. You can also use SQL to update or delete existing data, or to create new tables or structures within the database.

In short, RDBMS is the software that manages the database, and SQL is the language that is used to communicate with the RDBMS and work with the data in the database.

## [Next Lesson](https://www.notion.so/Lesson-2-PostgreSQL-8d169fb57670439688d4ad6317a61b95)