PostgreSQL supports a wide range of file formats for importing and exporting data, including CSV, Excel, and JSON. In this tutorial, we will go over the steps for importing and exporting data in PostgreSQL using SQL commands.

First, let's look at how to import data into PostgreSQL. Here are the steps:

1. Create a new table in your database to store the data. You can use the following SQL command to create a table called "import_table":

```sql
CREATE TABLE import_table (
  column1 datatype,
  column2 datatype,
  ...
);
```

1. Use the **`\COPY`** command to import the data from a file. The **`\COPY`** command is used to copy data to and from tables in PostgreSQL. The basic syntax is as follows:

```sql
\COPY table_name FROM '/path/to/file' WITH (FORMAT format, DELIMITER delimiter, HEADER header);
```

For example, to import data from a CSV file called "data.csv" into the "import_table" table, you would use the following command:

```sql
\COPY import_table FROM '/path/to/data.csv' WITH (FORMAT CSV, DELIMITER ',', HEADER true);
```

This command imports the data from the CSV file into the "import_table" table, using a comma as the delimiter and the first row as the header.

Now, let's look at how to export data from PostgreSQL. Here are the steps:

1. Use the **`\COPY`** command to export the data from a table to a file. The basic syntax is similar to the import syntax:

```sql
\COPY table_name TO '/path/to/file' WITH (FORMAT format, DELIMITER delimiter, HEADER header);
```

For example, to export data from the "export_table" table to a CSV file called "data.csv", you would use the following command:

```sql
\COPY export_table TO '/path/to/data.csv' WITH (FORMAT CSV, DELIMITER ',', HEADER true);
```

This command exports the data from the "export_table" table to the CSV file, using a comma as the delimiter and the table column names as the header.

That's it! With these steps, you should be able to import and export data in PostgreSQL using SQL commands.