## Join Commands

Joining tables in SQL is a powerful way to combine data from multiple sources into a single query. We will go over the basics of inner and outer joins, and how to use them to combine data from multiple tables.

Imagine you have two tables: "customers" and "orders". The "customers" table has a list of customer information, including the customer's name and email address. The "orders" table has a list of orders, including the customer's ID, the product they ordered, and the date of the order.

To get a list of customer names and the products they ordered, you can use a join. A join is a way to combine rows from two or more tables based on a related column.

There are two types of joins: inner joins and outer joins.

### **Inner joins**

An inner join returns rows from both tables that have a matching value in the joined column. Here is the basic syntax for an inner join:

```sql
SELECT column1, column2 FROM table1 INNER JOIN table2
ON table1.column1 = table2.column2;
```

For example, to get a list of customer names and the products they ordered, you can use the following inner join:

```sql
SELECT customers.name, orders.product FROM customers
INNER JOIN orders ON customers.id = orders.customer_id;
```

This inner join returns a list of customer names and the products they ordered, but only for customers who have placed an order. If a customer has not placed an order, they will not appear in the result set.

### **Outer joins**

An outer join returns all rows from both tables, regardless of whether there is a matching value in the joined column. There are three types of outer joins: left outer joins, right outer joins, and full outer joins.

A left outer join returns all rows from the left table, and any matching rows from the right table. If there is no match, the right side will contain NULL values. Here is the basic syntax for a left outer join:

```sql
SELECT column1, column2 FROM table1 LEFT JOIN table2
ON table1.column1 = table2.column2;
```

For example, to get a list of all customers and the products they ordered (if any), you can use the following left outer join:

```sql
SELECT customers.name, orders.product FROM customers
LEFT JOIN orders ON customers.id = orders.customer_id;
```

This left outer join returns a list of all customer names and the products they ordered, including customers who have not placed any orders. For these customers, the "product" column will contain a NULL value.

A right outer join is similar to a left outer join, but it returns all rows from the right table, and any matching rows from the left table. If there is no match, the left side will contain NULL values. Here is the basic syntax for a right outer join:

```sql
SELECT column1, column2 FROM table1 RIGHT JOIN table2
ON table1.column1 = table2.column2;
```

A full outer join returns all rows from both tables, regardless of whether there is a match in the joined column. If there is no match, the NULL values will appear on either side of the join. Here is the basic syntax for a full outer join:

```sql
SELECT column1, column2 FROM table1 FULL OUTER JOIN table2
ON table1.column1 = table2.column2;
```

With a little bit of practice, you will be able to combine data from multiple tables like a pro! Just remember: inner joins are used to return only matching rows, while outer joins are used to return all rows, regardless of whether there is a match. Happy joining!

## Using Subqueries & Temporary Tables

Hey there, want to learn about SQL subqueries and temporary tables? They might sound intimidating, but they're actually pretty cool!

A subquery is like a mini-query within a bigger query. It lets you use the results of one query to answer another question. It's like asking your little brother for the answer to a question and then using that answer to ask another question.

For example, let's say you have a database of employees and you want to find out the names of the employees who work in the same department as John. You can write a subquery to get the department name of John, and then use that information in the main query to get the names of all the employees who work in that department.

```sql
SELECT name FROM employees
WHERE department = (SELECT department FROM employees WHERE name = 'John');
```

A temporary table is like a regular table, but it's only available for the duration of the session. It's like a scrap piece of paper that you can use to jot down some notes, and then throw it away when you're done.

Temporary tables are useful when you need to store intermediate results from a complex query, or when you need to join multiple tables together. Here's an example of using a temporary table to find the name of the department with the most employees:

```sql
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE temp_table AS
SELECT department, COUNT(*) AS num_employees
FROM employees
GROUP BY department;

SELECT department
FROM temp_table
WHERE num_employees = (SELECT MAX(num_employees) FROM temp_table);
```

So there you have it! Subqueries and temporary tables might seem like a mouthful, but they're actually super helpful for making your SQL queries more powerful and efficient. Give them a try and see for yourself!