SQL functions and stored procedures are an essential part of working with SQL databases. In this article, we will discuss how to use built-in functions for data manipulation and aggregation, as well as how to create and call stored procedures to improve efficiency and organization.

## SQL Built-in Functions

SQL provides a variety of built-in functions that can be used to perform data manipulation and aggregation tasks. These functions are used in the SELECT statement to perform operations on data and return the results. Some of the most commonly used functions include:

- SUM: This function returns the sum of a set of values. For example, to get the sum of all sales in a sales table, you would use the following SQL query:

```sql
SELECT SUM(sales) FROM sales_table;
```

- AVG: This function returns the average of a set of values. For example, to get the average sales in a sales table, you would use the following SQL query:

```sql
SELECT AVG(sales) FROM sales_table;
```

- MAX: This function returns the maximum value from a set of values. For example, to get the highest sale in a sales table, you would use the following SQL query:

```sql
SELECT MAX(sales) FROM sales_table;
```

These are just a few examples of the many built-in functions available in SQL. By using these functions, you can perform complex data analysis tasks with just a few lines of code.

## SQL Stored Procedures

SQL stored procedures are pre-written SQL scripts that can be executed with a single command. Stored procedures are a powerful way to organize and reuse complex SQL code. They are stored in the database, making them accessible from anywhere in the system. This makes it easy to reuse the same code in multiple places, reducing the risk of introducing errors into the system.

To create a stored procedure, you need to use the CREATE PROCEDURE statement. Here is an example of a stored procedure that returns the total sales for a particular month:

```sql
CREATE PROCEDURE get_total_sales(month INT)
BEGIN
    SELECT SUM(sales) FROM sales_table WHERE month = month;
END;
```

To call a stored procedure, you simply use the EXECUTE statement, followed by the name of the procedure. Here is an example of calling the get_total_sales stored procedure:

```sql
EXECUTE get_total_sales(5);
```

In this example, the stored procedure returns the total sales for the month of May. By using stored procedures, you can simplify your code, reduce the risk of errors, and make it easier to reuse complex SQL code.

In conclusion, SQL functions and stored procedures are powerful tools that can help you simplify and improve your SQL code. By using these features, you can perform complex data analysis tasks and reuse complex SQL code with ease. Whether you're just starting out with SQL or you're an experienced developer, learning how to use functions and stored procedures is an essential part of working with SQL databases.